# image_catalog

This project contains source code and supporting files for a serverless application that stores metadata about images uploaded on S3 in an table in DynamoDB.
You can deploy the application with the SAM CLI. It includes the following files and folders.

- imagecatalog - Code for the application's Lambda function and Project Dockerfile.
- events - Invocation events that you can use to invoke the function.
- imagecatalog/tests - Unit tests for the application code.
- template.yaml - A template that defines the application's AWS resources.

The application uses S3, DynamoDB and AWS Lambda.

## Deploy the sample application

The Serverless Application Model Command Line Interface (SAM CLI) is an extension of the AWS CLI that adds functionality for building and testing Lambda applications. It uses Docker to run your functions in an Amazon Linux environment that matches Lambda. It can also emulate your application's build environment and API.

To use the SAM CLI, you need the following tools.

- Docker - [Install Docker community edition](https://hub.docker.com/search/?type=edition&offering=community)
- SAM CLI - [Install the SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html)

You may need the following for local testing.

- Node.js - [Install Node.js 14](https://nodejs.org/en/), including the NPM package management tool.

To build and deploy your application for the first time, run the following in your shell:

```bash
sam build
sam deploy --guided
```

The first command will build a docker image from a Dockerfile and then the source of your application inside the Docker image. The second command will package and deploy your application to AWS, with a series of prompts:

- **Stack Name**: The name of the stack to deploy to CloudFormation. This should be unique to your account and region, and a good starting point would be something matching your project name.
- **AWS Region**: The AWS region you want to deploy your app to.
- **Confirm changes before deploy**: If set to yes, any change sets will be shown to you before execution for manual review. If set to no, the AWS SAM CLI will automatically deploy application changes.
- **Allow SAM CLI IAM role creation**: Many AWS SAM templates, including this example, create AWS IAM roles required for the AWS Lambda function(s) included to access AWS services. By default, these are scoped down to minimum required permissions. To deploy an AWS CloudFormation stack which creates or modifies IAM roles, the `CAPABILITY_IAM` value for `capabilities` must be provided. If permission isn't provided through this prompt, to deploy this example you must explicitly pass `--capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM` to the `sam deploy` command.
- **Save arguments to samconfig.toml**: If set to yes, your choices will be saved to a configuration file inside the project, so that in the future you can just re-run `sam deploy` without parameters to deploy changes to your application.

You can find your API Gateway Endpoint URL in the output values displayed after deployment.

## Use the SAM CLI to build and test locally

Build your application with the `sam build` command.

```bash
image_catalog$ sam build --use-container
```

The SAM CLI builds a docker image from a Dockerfile and then installs dependencies defined in `images/package.json` inside the docker image. The processed template file is saved in the `.aws-sam/build` folder.

- **Note**: The Dockerfile included in this sample application uses `npm install` by default. If you are building your code for production, you can modify it to use `npm ci` instead.

Test a single function by invoking it directly with a test event. An event is a JSON document that represents the input that the function receives from the event source. Test events are included in the `events` folder in this project.

Run functions locally and invoke them with the `sam local invoke` command.

```bash
image_catalog$ sam local invoke ImageCatalogFunction --event events/event.json
```

## Add a resource to your application

The application template uses AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) to define application resources. AWS SAM is an extension of AWS CloudFormation with a simpler syntax for configuring common serverless application resources such as functions, triggers, and APIs. For resources not included in [the SAM specification](https://github.com/awslabs/serverless-application-model/blob/master/versions/2016-10-31.md), you can use standard [AWS CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-template-resource-type-ref.html) resource types.

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
image_catalog$ sam logs -n ImageCatalogFunction --stack-name image_catalog --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Unit tests

Tests are defined in the `imagecatalog/tests` folder in this project. Use NPM to install the [Mocha test framework](https://mochajs.org/) and run unit tests from your local machine.

```bash
image_catalog$ cd imagecatalog
imagecatalog$ npm install
imagecatalog$ npm run test
```

## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name image_catalog
```

## Resources

See the [AWS SAM developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html) for an introduction to SAM specification, the SAM CLI, and serverless application concepts.

Next, you can use AWS Serverless Application Repository to deploy ready to use Apps that go beyond hello world samples and learn how authors developed their applications: [AWS Serverless Application Repository main page](https://aws.amazon.com/serverless/serverlessrepo/)
